# Educell Student Records - Front End Readme

Deploy URL for front end: https://international-fe-2.netlify.com/

Details for directories and files are outlined after the technologies & concepts listing.

## Technologies & concepts used for front end:

- **React** framework (including implementation of the new React Hooks API)
- **Redux** state management
- Preprocessed styling with **SCSS**

## `App.jsx`

The starting point of the application will conditionally render, based on whether the user has a JWT authentication token stored in `localStorage`:

- The sign in page (`SignInPage`), with a component showing company name and description (`NameHeader`) displayed or;
- The home page (`HomePage`), with a navigation sidebar included (`NavBar`)

## Containers (components that are used as 'containers' for other components and make up the entirety of a page view):

### `SignInPage.jsx`

The sign in page that will be displayed, containing a header displaying the company name (with a brief description), the registration form, and the login form.

Components that are utilized include:

- `NameHeader`
- `RegistrationForm`
- `LoginForm`

### `HomePage.jsx`

The first page that will be seen by the user after logging in. It contains the navigation sidebar and a paginated list of students displayed in grid format and sorted by name. Individual grid entries have buttons linking to a page with the full information of the corresponding student.

Components that are displayed include:

- `StudentGrid`
- `StudentGridItem` _(generated by the `StudentGrid` component)_

### `SingleStudentAddPage.jsx`

A page that contains a form for adding a new student into the database records.

Components that are displayed include:

- `StudentInfoForm` (function to add the student to the database records is facilitated via props)

### `SingleStudentViewPage.jsx`

A page that displays all information of a particular student, with ability to delete the student from the database records as well as update their information.

Components that are displayed include:

- `StudentFullInfoDisplay` (conditionally rendered)
- `StudentInfoForm` (conditionally rendered; function to add the student to the database records is facilitated via props)

## Components (reusable components that make up part of a web page and handle logic):

### `LoginForm.jsx`

Contains the actual form for entering login information, with a button for logging in.

_Can be found in the following container(s): `SignInPage`_

### `NameHeader.jsx`

Purely aesthetic component for displaying the company name and a brief description.

_Can be found in the following container(s): `SignInPage`_

### `NavBar.jsx`

The component for displaying the actual navigation sidebar. Active link items are styled accordingly.

_Conditionally rendered in `App.jsx` (based on login status)._

### `RegistrationForm.jsx`

Contains the actual form for entering registration information with a button for submitting the new user's information.

_Can be found in the following container(s): `SignInPage`_

### `StudentFullInfoDisplay.jsx`

Component for the actual display area for an individual student's information.

_Can be found in the following container(s): `SingleStudentViewPage`_

### `StudentGrid.jsx`

Component for the actual grid display of all students falling within the current pagination count.

_Can be found in the following container(s): `HomePage`_

### `StudentGridItem.jsx`

Component for displaying an individual student in the grid display layout. Generated by the `StudentGrid` component.

_Can be found in the following container(s): `HomePage` (generated by the `StudentGrid` component)_

### `StudentInfoForm.jsx`

Component that contains a form for either adding or updating a student's information.

_Can be found in the following container(s): `SingleStudentAddPage`, `SingleStudentViewPage`_

## Reducers

### `registrationReducer.js`

Handles the state for processing registration data.

### `loginReducer.js`

Handles the state for processing login data.

### `studentDataReducer.js`

Handles the state for processing student data.

## SCSS stylesheets

`index.scss` is the main stylesheet file for SCSS preprocessing. All other stylesheet files are SCSS partials integrated into this file.

These partials include the following:

### `variables.scss`

Contains variables used for dynamically assigning color values (with corresponding color names also indicated) and fonts.

### `mixins.scss`

Used to add capabilities for functionally applying various parameter-based styling boilerplates on an element.

### `animations.scss`

Contains keyframe-based native CSS animations to be used in the front end app.

### `reset.scss`

Contains a modified version of the Eric Meyers CSS reset.

### `global.scss`

Contains a set of styles to be globally applied. Targets mostly element selectors, along with a few recurring classes that are used for upper-level tags.

### `App.scss`

Contains styling for app-wide background overlay.

### `NameHeader.scss`

Contains styling for the `NameHeader` component.

### `SignInPage.scss`

Contains styling for the `SignInPage` container. Layout and shared styling for login and registration forms are defined here.

### `NavBar.scss`

Contains styling for the navigation sidebar. Includes styling for active links.

### `HomePage.scss`

Contains styling for the home page, including the paginated grid display of students.

### `SingleStudentAddAndView.scss`

Contains styling for:

- Page for adding/updating a student record
- Page for viewing an individual student's information
